Track 1: And, and for play, like is it, has it become more, um, Here.
Here's the thing, like in my perspective, like living out Finland and working mostly in the Western Europe, it doesn't seem that, that people are like, like Playworks on is on the top of the, uh, top of the list when people are looking for jobs, um, or, or when they're thinking who to work with. Is, is, is that a wrong perception?
I'm, I'm just trying to, because I would thi feel that, that a company this successful with a fully remote setup, uh, should be [00:24:00] like on top of your list if you're looking for a job.
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, should be. And, uh, we're receiving a lot of, uh, cvs, uh, from like different, uh, different people, but at the same time, Still, we have, uh, one internal advantages and also like limitation at the same time, like from different angle. This is like hundreds and from different angle. This is limitation. It's like language wise.
So the thing, yeah, the thing is that, uh, um, most of our employees, uh, they are, uh, either, uh, like Russian speaking or billing will. And, uh, um, no matter that, uh, we're using English, uh, like as a company language, to share news, to share, um, like everything, what is like happening, uh, with the company. And also we use, uh, English, uh, during like q and a sessions with founders or uh, csu, but at the same time, [00:25:00] Uh, it would be like challenging for, uh, let's say game developers or developers or even like marketing, uh, to work in an environment where, uh, dominance of one language, non-English language, uh, is
You can feel this like dominance. 
Track 1: yeah, yeah,
It's a, it's like work. We're like working for a Chinese company.
The same, same kind of a thing would be. 
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, sa, same kind of thing. And of course, like from like leadership standpoint, we are thinking, uh, what to do in this case, how to attract like more talents, uh, globally. Um, and especially we started to think after, uh, last year, um, what to do on next.
Uh, There are like various solutions and for example, like in my case, uh, I'm finishing now, uh, executive mba, uh, program
Track 1: Congratulations,
Hopefully before, before the baby comes. Uh,
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, hope, [00:26:00] hopefully. And topic of my, uh, dissertation is, uh, company transformation in terms of language,
Track 1: Hmm.
Maxim Kirilenko: how to, uh, change company corporate language from like local one to international or like English as a lingua franca, uh, in this, uh, case.
And yeah, this is like a challenging, uh, thing to do. Uh, there. On the one hand, there are a lot of companies who did this successfully. Uh, global companies. On the other hand, um, there are a lot of limitations and there are a lot of problems which, uh, can come on the way, uh, of changing language.
Track 1: Yeah, because language is, is only one part, uh, there. And as I said, like the, it seems like culturally it's uh,
Maxim Kirilenko: Culturally as well. Yeah, also like power, this balance between, uh, like foreign, uh, people and like, and local people. This is, uh, this could be also a problem and there are a lot of problems. 
Definitely. 
Got it. I was, I would've just [00:27:00] more asked is like that. That was kinda like, my point is like how many people who are outside of the dominant culture of the company have joined and how they have been, you know, working remotely, but it seems like pretty much everybody who joins apart from, you know, customer support or, or functions where the, uh,
like q and a and whatnot where the, uh, the other.
Track 1: Types of cultures are essential because you're looking for people who are native in,
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah. Hor native. 
Track 1: Yeah. You, you don't have those in, in your company really to, to that extent where you can see it so that those might be future challenges and something luckily you're, you're, uh,
doing your MBA on
Maxim Kirilenko: My, my, my might be a future challenges. Yeah. Because of course I'm start, uh, like I started to hear from, uh, various companies from like big corporates like, uh, apple, apple and Google to, uh, like smaller companies that they're experiencing, uh, problems with, uh, understanding what approach they're going to, uh, to choose like hybrid approach and continue to provide people hybrid approach or maybe it's like [00:28:00] a strong word, like make people to go to the office again five days a week.
Track 1: Mandate Yeah. Yeah.
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah.
Track 1: I wanted to ask you about something. So this, uh, this is something that I've heard of Playworks before, uh, before I engage with Playworks in any way. Was this sort of a cluster approach that at, at least at some point you had, and this was like the, uh, industry rumor how Playworks works in a way that. Um, I think I heard this from Belka
when I was visiting Minsk back in the days and they were saying that, um, cuz they hired a, a person who worked at play Ricks in
user acquisition and the guy was in Petersburg back then.
And I. Uh, he was ba he basically was allowed, they, they told me this is the play, Ricks model They, he was able to hire a full, full team, like, you know, five people around him in St. Petersburg
to run the function as well as he needed,
and kind of got the, and it was like, What I loved about what was, [00:29:00] it was so straightforward with that company. Uh, I'm sure play is the same way as like, you do this, this is the target, and they showed you, and this is the bonus when you hit the target.
And the bonus was like very sizeable. And we were just laughing cuz we were like, oh my God. Like I would do anything to hit that bonus And then, and they're like, okay. And from, from this point on, it was like we are, we are aligned on the target.
We're aligned on what is the, uh, reward for the target. See you in a year when when the target is, is achieved, and, uh, yeah.
Is, is the cluster structure still the same?
Maxim Kirilenko: Uh, no class cluster structure is, uh, not, not the same. So might be that like five years ago or five and a half years ago. 
Track 1: that was about then. 
Maxim Kirilenko: yeah, that, that was, uh, that was the case. But, uh, I really don't know because I joined, like players five and a half years ago, and, uh, that time we, uh, started to do a lot of, uh, implement a lot of changes to our company structure and our approaches.
And now, n if I [00:30:00] talking about like our user acquisition team, Like as a cluster, probably I can name Ireland because, uh, our headquarter, uh, in Ireland and of course, uh, in Ireland we have, uh, all like senior leadership team, including user acquisition, including development, including, uh, like fin legal and uh, it was before like business development as well.
Track 1: Yeah.
Everything except business development.
Maxim Kirilenko: Uh, now everything except business development,
Track 1: Interesting.
Maxim Kirilenko: now I'm like more a guest of, 
our Irish, uh, uh, headquarter. . Yeah. And the thing is that, uh, if I'm talking about like other offices,
Track 1: Mm-hmm.
Maxim Kirilenko: Um, no, I think that, uh, we don't have, uh, clusters, so if we're talking about the user acquisition team, our user acquisition team is spread, uh, around the globe with a focus on like Eastern European countries and, uh, European countries.
For example, we have, [00:31:00] uh, like different people in, um, like Georgia, Armenia, uh, Portugal, Spain, uh, Montenegro,
Track 1: Mm.
Maxim Kirilenko: Serbia, Cyprus, and again, like island. Uh, yeah.
Track 1: Uh, how about things like, like new game development where, where you're kicking off a new project. How do you, how are you able to do these, you know, billion dollar franchises while working remotely?
Maxim Kirilenko: Mm. Yeah, I think that it's also like a secret, uh, even for, for , even for us
Track 1: Yeah.
Maxim Kirilenko: Uh, but at, at, at the same time, of course, uh, um, because we were thinking about this like during wrong time, of course there are a lot of like success which, uh, came from, uh, our, uh, remote work approach because, uh, Is in mode. We started to [00:32:00] hire people from, from different, uh, different parts of country, uh, from different part of, uh, let's start from scratch.
Track 1: Yeah.
Maxim Kirilenko: Uh, 
yeah, 
Track 1: So, Sorry with the question.
Maxim Kirilenko: by the way, uh, let's maybe add to like previous point first because I forgot there is one also. Uh, like disadvantage to be like so remote if we're talking about like user acquisition, I don't know if it, it could be like interesting or not. 
Track 1: it is very interesting. 
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, the thing is that, uh, the thing is that because our user acquisition team, uh, is not like clustered and not focused in a one country now for, uh, for us, it's sometimes a challenging to.
Set up like quarterly business reviews or meeting with our marketing partners because, uh, what [00:33:00] we need to do is that we need to, uh, prepare like business trips for all our team to meet at like in one country.
Oh, so when you're doing a quarterly business review, you do them on site?
Yeah, 
Yes. Makes sense. It's a, it's a very synchronous task to do a
quarterly business 
For. For example, like, uh, this August we're going to have like several business review with our, uh, partners and we were trying to choose location for this, uh, business review. And, uh, we started to choose locations, uh, by a number of people from user acquisition team who are there.
And all other user acquisition team will come to this country, uh, to, uh, attend this business review.
Track 1: Which country won.
Maxim Kirilenko: Georgia,
now it's, yeah, now it's a great time in Georgia. Uh, and, uh, I think that our partners and our user acquisition team, they can combine, uh, business conversation with, uh, a little bit of, uh, leisure[00:34:00] 
Track 1: Yeah. Yeah, it's a beautiful country for sure. And and how about new game development? That is something that also requires extensive amount of onsite, like, in my opinion,
extensive amount of work from a team that is very gel that can do very rapid, uh, iterations on, on. On the work and, and, and everything.
So how do you do that in a remote setup or is that the type of a thing that you mainly do on site and then when it goes, when it passes, you know, when the game design documentations are done and it passes all the green lights and you know exactly what to do, you kind of move into remote. Like how, how do you do that?
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, it is also like hybrid and uh, let's say like fully remote. It's like not a secret that, uh, during like digital era, we have, uh, we have a lot of opportunities to, uh, have conversation, uh, and like see each other via like video conference, uh, tools. And, uh, we're using, uh, s like a lot of other companies.
We're using this video conferences to [00:35:00] brainstorm. We're using, uh, these video conferences to like generate ideas and also we're using this, uh, Conferences, like video conferences, uh, for like problem solving things to be quick in our decisions. For example, if we have like any problem, uh, Which is connected to our games, it's better to jump on the call, uh, for like five, 10 minutes, uh, together, uh, discuss, uh, what we're going to do, finalize like vision, uh, what to do next.
And then like the whole team will start working, uh, towards one unified vision. And, 
Track 1: I think you're, you're making it sound too easy. You're saying like everybody else has video calls too, and everybody else
is having problems. 
Maxim Kirilenko: That, that, that that's true. But, uh, one of the like, main problem of. I suppose that one of the main problem of uh, like other companies and maybe like other people with like different culture [00:36:00] is that, um, they think about like video calls that they need to schedule this call like in advance and they need to sort out schedule, 
our case at, uh, some point video calls is, uh, an like instant tool.
So let's imagine that the, your company is working 100% from the office and you have a problem. You have like, uh, some members of your team, which are sitting on a different floor, what you will do, probably, so to solve this question, you will come to them
Track 1: Mm-hmm.
Maxim Kirilenko: at their, uh, place and you will discuss, uh, what, what to do and then, uh, start, uh, solving this, this problem.
So we at some point using pretty much the same approach. So we imagine that, um, We're sitting in one big virtual office, and actually at any time you can call to anyone
Track 1: Mm-hmm.
Maxim Kirilenko: without even like [00:37:00] scheduling, uh, or video call or like video conference. And this approach works. So it's pretty much the same approach, but in like virtual environment,
Track 1: Mm. How, um, okay. Another question. How hierarchical is play Rex?
Maxim Kirilenko: uh, it's not hierarchical. It's like pretty flat. 
Track 1: Interesting. 
Maxim Kirilenko: So, yeah, sometimes from, um, our like junior, uh, team member to founder, it's like probably, uh, less than two levels. Sometimes even like one,
Track 1: Somebody can just ping one of the book my brothers and like, Hey
Maxim Kirilenko: no, 
Track 1: I wanna have a call, 
Maxim Kirilenko: no, actually everyone, uh, can do this. Yeah. 
Track 1: Wow. 
Maxim Kirilenko: all our employees, they can text to, uh, Dimitri Niger, like at any time. Uh, and the ignorant mystery will answer, uh, like today. Like any question?
Track 1: Oh, that amazing. I, I mean, these are the things that people don't know, and I'm just asking because I know that people have certain type of, uh, pre [00:38:00] composition about a company, especially a company that is so rooted in, in like, uh, You know, Slavic cultures and they would assume that it's very hierarchical. There's levels and then people are just commanding each other and shouting at each
Maxim Kirilenko: No. No. 
Track 1: and when you're saying like, oh, we're actually fully remote. You can pick the founder anytime. We're three and a half thousand people. We work wherever people wanna work. This is, these are the things that people put on, on you know, the, the most, the most Californian companies,
Maxim Kirilenko: Most, most California companies,
Track 1: yeah.
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, I 
Track 1: are the ones that mandate people back to work,
Maxim Kirilenko: yeah, at some point maybe we're ahead of, uh, Californian companies now in terms of like, transparency, in terms of like flexibility and in terms of simplicity of, uh, process.
Track 1: So, so kind of like to take this, this, this episode home, I, I, I think a lot, you know, people who are listening to this have, have a lot of revelation that it come in in and they're trying to, probably many of them figure out how they can work at play Ricks. Uh, but, but like, what is your recommendation for other [00:39:00] companies that are. That are, you know, looking to make remote work a permanent solution and looking to improve them because the, my hypothesis is that the big companies are. The ones that carry the weight, the, the Activision Blizzards, the um, the Supercells of the world. They are the ones who can command people to come to the office and they say, this is our culture.
This is how we always worked. We want you to be here most of the time. Again, I don't know if, if Supercells doing this, but I would assume that they would do that. And if you don't want to do that, well tough luck. You're not part of the culture. Um,
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, think that, that, that, that, it could be, it could 
Track 1: Yeah. And then, and then the, the smaller companies that don't have the same type of prestige will have to. We'll have to be great at remote work because that's their value proposition. Well, if you work there, I'm sure the salary is better and it's safer and whatnot. But if you work here, you know, maybe salary is not high that high, but you could work out of Portugal or whatever where, wherever you are. So, so what would, what would be kind of [00:40:00] like your recommendation for, for companies that are embracing, embracing, uh, remote work and want to be, you know, little playes.
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah. The thing is that, let's say, let's start from like big companies, uh, and suggestion, uh, to them, I think that, uh, like a lot of, uh, people, uh, Uh, from like senior leadership, they used to work, uh, from the office. And, uh, of course for, for them it's like a normal format, how to, how to do their job and how, how to continue to work, uh, in an efficient mode.
And because that, of course, these people, uh, especially like these people because they're like formulating, uh, also like culture and they are, uh, for formulating, um, the whole like processes. They need to think about this, um, in a more detailed way, uh, as an opportunity compared to, uh, like disadvantage. Uh, and they need to start like the [00:41:00] trunk, uh, to do remote work in on their own first and then, uh, they will feel how they're employees.
Are working in a remote, uh, way, and then after that they can scale this approach. Uh, as for, um, like other, uh, like medium sized and uh, small companies, I think that most of companies there are like, doing great at the moment because after Covid, a lot of companies, they started to work in a remote way and they, uh, feel the taste of remote work and, uh, like small and medium sized companies, they're trying to.
Uh, to scale this approach. And they are teaching our industry, including, of course, like, uh, lyrics. Uh, so we're like, are teaching our industry how to work in a remote and hybrid mode.
Track 1: Fascinating. Uh, you make ev so you make everything sound so simple. And yet I've been studying this for, for, you know, the past two [00:42:00] weeks quite intensively. And a lot of companies have a lot of problems with it. I'm, I don't know how like, I understand how Playrix makes it based on your, your words, but I'm, I'm still left. In, in a little bit of a state of like trying to understand what is really the secret sauce. Because on one hand, like, I don't know, my feeling is that the culture is actually a really big thing. You said culture, ways of working, onboarding,
uh, motivated and connected to the culture. You mentioned culture a couple of different times and I feel like. Like the, uh, the little bit more homogeneous culture of playwrights compared to other companies that, that are quite widely even. I mean, even, even if you hire from around Europe, you will get a lot of different cultures, like a person coming
in from Ukraine Yeah,
Versus a person coming from Portugal are quite different though though they might look the same in terms of their values.
So
I don't know if that plays a role. 
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, I think that it, it, it plays a role that a lot of our, like employee employees are from like cis countries [00:43:00] and, uh, like in cis countries, there is a completely different approach, uh, how to work and, uh, completely different approach to work life balance.
Track 1: Mm-hmm.
Maxim Kirilenko: I'm seeing like a lot, uh, here in Europe, for example, in London especially, or, uh, in Dublin.
So in Dublin and, uh, in London, like work-life balance is necessary and a lot of people are following this, so people just don't want to, uh, like to work more. And, uh, uh, when you are like in, uh, Remote work you need, uh, like as an individual or as an employee, you need to motivate yourself, uh, to continue to work and to continue to deliver.
Actually, and this is the hardest part, and, uh, now when, like in CS countries, people really think that they need to [00:44:00] work hard. Eight hours, nine hours, 12 hours. So it's like a culture at some point. It's like a culture to work. Only work
Track 1: yeah, I,
I get that 
Maxim Kirilenko: yeah, a few ,few , things about like work life balance. Uh, yeah, because a lot of like, people are like, uh, at some point in need or, uh, in like, not.
Overall in a good state, uh, from like wealth standpoint. Uh, but here's like a little bit different situation and maybe this cultural differences, uh, plays a very big role.
Track 1: I'm happy you said that. I'm happy you said that because, because it's not as just as simple as like
Maxim Kirilenko: No, no, no, 
it's not, 
Track 1: at any time. 
Maxim Kirilenko: not 
Track 1: I think the culture is a, as you mentioned many times,
Maxim Kirilenko: Mm-hmm. 
Track 1: plays a big role. And for I, I would say for takeaways for the companies, there's also higher against a certain culture.
You don't need to be coming in from the same geographical region to have same kind of approach towards [00:45:00] work life
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, that's true. 
Track 1: hire against that type of a virtue.
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah. But at at, at the same time, clerics. Already has an experience like more than 10 years of experience, uh, working, uh, in a hybrid or remote work.
Track 1: Yeah.
Maxim Kirilenko: And, uh, other companies, uh, like big corporations and a lot of other companies, they have experience of only like one and a half years, or like two years, uh, since Covid Pandemic and two years, it's not enough to change all processes.
It's not enough to change people's mind. And the, uh, what we're seeing at the moment is that, Uh, like all these companies are thinking that, okay, let's return to our roots. Let's return to work from the office. So they didn't give remote work or hybrid mode like to try.
Track 1: Well, on the other hand, defending those companies, I would say if your business was booming and you were doing great in your billion dollar revenues and you're not doing as great of [00:46:00] today, and the only thing you can say like, well, people are disengaged and whatnot, then for them it's easy to say, you know what, let's
Maxim Kirilenko: No. them it the same. 
Track 1: For those who don't have that option, who, who have to, you know, Who are not doing that great and are not as desirable places to work. They have to learn from it. And I would kind of like, I don't know if you if you agree with this, but I would like to conclude this in, in one thing, like, like the culture aspect, like hiring against the type of a culture you want to build is imperative when you're building. When you're building, for example, a remote work structure, it's not only that, hey, you can work remotely from a beach. If you hire against that
sentiment, 
Maxim Kirilenko: Mm-hmm. 
Track 1: because you're basically saying work life balance. Everything is gonna be hunky dory. Uh, but if you're, I think I. Work from home is tough. It it, as you pointed out in the beginning, you need to put in a lot of hours it will happen. And, and, um, there's no coffee breaks just walking around chitchatting with your friends and doing stuff like that. [00:47:00] So, so you have to be prepared for that. And then when you're hiring people, make sure you're hire against that. Approach, uh, rather than people who are saying like, yes, I will come because I always wanted to work from, uh, from MICUs. Like That's a so, so, so, um, so I don't know. Do you agree with that?
Maxim Kirilenko: Yeah, I think so. I think so.
Track 1: All right. Well, we arrived on, on some kind of a hypothesis, at least at the end. Uh, If you want to connect with Maxim, he's on deconstructor of fund Slack channel. You can ping him anytime. You can find him on LinkedIn. You can ask him as a motivational speaker on how to transform your company to a fully remote one. I'm not sure if he will accept, but, but you can but, but, but you can ask him and, um, you can find him on the streets of London. Very rarely when he gets out. uh, from, from his two daughters and his mba. So Maxim, huge thanks for, for coming in and, and for, for [00:48:00] sharing so much information on
how the third largest th third largest company works.
So 
Maxim Kirilenko: They're largest 
Track 1: it was a pleasure
and, 
Maxim Kirilenko: the 
Track 1: um, 
Maxim Kirilenko: pleasure as always. 
Track 1: uh, yes, let's get you back on the podcast as, as soon as you're, uh, you have your, your second
Maxim Kirilenko: See yeah. See you soon.
Track 1: all right. Bye-bye everybody.
Maxim Kirilenko: Bye bye Byebye 
everybody. Bye.

